>>What is Grafana?
Grafana is an open-source data analytics tool for gathering metrics that make sense of enormous volumes of data and 
monitoring our applications via cool configurable dashboards. 
Grafana connects to Graphite, Prometheus, Influx DB, ElasticSearch, MySQL, PostgreSQL, and other databases.

>>Panels and Dashboards in Grafana:
  - Panels: Panels are individual visual elements that display specific data, such as graphs, tables, and single-stat metrics.
  - Dashboards: Dashboards are collections of panels that provide a holistic view of system metrics. 
    Dashboards are created by arranging panels and configuring their settings, queries, and visualization options.


>>What are the features of Grafana?
Key features of Grafana:
i) Panels: From heatmaps to histograms. Geo maps to graphs. Grafana's visualisations are fast and flexible, 
          allowing you to visualise your data however you want.
ii) Plugins: Plugins for Grafana enable you to connect your tools and teams. 
            Data source plugins link to existing data sources via APIs and render data in real-time, removing the need 
            for data migration or ingestion.
iii) Alerts: Grafana alerting allows you to centralise and unify all of your alerts by allowing you to create, manage, 
             and silence them all from a single interface.
iv) Transformations: You may rename, summarise, aggregate, and calculate data across several searches and data sources 
                     using transformations.
v) Annotations: Rich events from many data sources can be annotated into graphs. You may see all of an event's metadata 
                and tags by hovering your mouse over it.
vi) Panel Editor: With a consistent UI for configuring data settings across all of your visualizations, the panel editor 
                  makes it simple to build, alter, and explore all of your panels.

>>Data Source Integration in Grafana:
Grafana supports integration with various data sources, such as:

  - Databases (MySQL, PostgreSQL, etc.)

  - Time-series databases (Prometheus, InfluxDB)

  - Logging systems (Elasticsearch, Loki)

  - Cloud platforms (AWS CloudWatch, Azure Monitor)

  - APIs and custom data sources


>>Is it possible to use Grafana without Prometheus?
Grafana can only access data from third-party systems like Prometheus, MySQL, Azure Monitor, and Amazon CloudWatch, 
among others. Grafana is so dependent on other systems for data because it lacks the ability to collect data on its own, 
whether via agents or other data pipelines.

>>What type of monitoring can be done via Grafana?
Grafana is the most widely used open-source tool for querying, visualising and alerting metrics and logs from everywhere. 
Time-series databases like Graphite, Prometheus, Elasticsearch, OpenTSDB, and InfluxDB are used to query.

>>What is Grafana Cloud?
Grafana Cloud is a scalable, highly available, and performant observability platform for your applications and infrastructure.
It allows you to see all of your observability data in one place, whether it's stored in Grafana Cloud Metrics or on your
 cloud systems. With built-in support for Prometheus, Elasticsearch, and Amazon CloudWatch, all you have to do is 
configure data sources in Grafana Cloud to start developing dashboards and querying metrics data.

>>Explain Grafana Alerts
Alerts allow you to be notified as soon as a system problem arises.
When a condition is met, Grafana can trigger alerts through various channels (email, Slack, etc.).
Robust and responsive notifications let you discover and resolve problems quickly, reducing service disruption.
Grafana alerting is made up of four main elements:
Alerting rule -An alerting rule is a set of evaluation criteria that determines whether or not an alert will be triggered. 
          It contains one or more queries and expressions, a condition, the frequency with which the condition is evaluated,
          and, optionally, the time over which the condition is met.
Contact point - When the conditions of an alerting rule are met, the contact point is used to deliver notifications.
Notification policy - A set of matching and grouping criteria used to define where and how often notifications should be sent.
Silences - When a notice is silenced, it is based on the date and matching criteria.

>>What's the best way to check if the Grafana service is running or not?
sudo systemctl status grafana-server

>>What Is Prometheus Grafana?
Prometheus is an open-source data monitoring tool. 
Grafana is used to visualize the data, and Prometheus is used to fuel the backend.
Prometheus, on the other hand, has data visualization options. 
Grafana, on the other hand, continues to be the most often used data visualization tool. 

>>What is Grafana Loki and How does it work?
Grafana Loki is a log aggregation tool that collects and organizes logs from all of your apps and infrastructure. 
It offers a unique approach by indexing only the metadata of the log lines rather than the complete text.

>>Why use Grafana Loki?
you may distribute logs in any format, from any source, and through a number of clients
With 100 per cent persistence to object storage, you get petabyte-scale, fast throughput, cost-effective & durable storage.
log lines can be used to create metrics and alarms.

>>What is a label in Grafana?
Labels are a type of key-value pair. 
To describe a log stream, we call them metadata. Labels are particularly crucial in Loki since they define a stream. 
More precisely, the stream is defined by the combination of each label key and value.

>>Loki's Relationship with Promtail:
Promtail is an agent that gathers logs from various sources and sends them to Loki for storage. 
It can be installed on nodes, containers, or other log-producing entities. 
Promtail enhances Loki's efficiency by ensuring logs are collected and forwarded in an optimized manner, reducing the 
load on both the log producers and the Loki infrastructure.

>>What is Grafana Tempo?
Grafana Tempo is an open-source and user-friendly high-volume distributed tracing backend. 
Tempo is a low-cost operating system that only requires object storage and is strongly integrated with Grafana, 
Prometheus, and Loki. 
Tempo supports open-source tracing protocols such as Jaeger, Zipkin, and OpenTelemetry.

>>Opentelemetry?
open-source observability framework
OpenTelemetry is a set of APIs, SDKs and other components (like the OpenTelemetry Collector or Operator) designed for the 
generation of high-quality telemetry data (traces, metrics, and logs) from cloud-native software.
easy to collect telemetry data from your applications and infrastructure. 
This data can then be used to monitor your systems, troubleshoot problems, and improve performance.

otel collector consists of
1.receivers
2.processers
3.exporters

OpenTelemetry vs. OpenTracing 
OpenTelemetry and OpenTracing are both open-source projects that provide tools and APIs for instrumentation data management.
i)OpenTracing is an API for generating trace data. It supports several popular tracing backends, including Jaeger and Zipkin.
ii)OpenTelemetry, on the other hand, is a merger of OpenTracing and another project – OpenCensus. Unlike OpenTracing, 
OpenTelemetry supports multiple telemetry data types: traces, metrics, and logs.


